I like to be honest in my videos I also
like to be honest about what my
motivations are for making a video this
video I'm making now kind of two big
reasons why I'm making it people used to
ask me about this all the time for one
thing people used to ask me to make a
video on this topic but you know
especially women in my life women were
starting sexual relationships with me
romantic relations with me very often
one of their first questions for me is
basically why are you not left-wing or
they struggle to understand where I am
on the political spectrum even though
they've read my essays even though
sometimes they've read a lot of research
have done a lot of intellectual work
I've done in writing and sometimes
they've watched a hundred of my YouTube
videos so even though they have a sense
of my character and my interests and my
political views on particular issues
very very often the women in my life for
the women just coming into my life women
getting to know me and getting you know
thinking about what another gonna commit
to me romantically very often what they
want to know is why are you not
left-wing second big reason is you know
for a long time now I've been thinking
about doing a video talking about the
poisonous dangerous counterproductive
ignorant and self-righteous attitudes
that I see many left-wingers exhibiting
here on YouTube left-wing people within
veganism vegans who describe themselves
as anti-capitalist and so on but you
know if I make a video that approaches
that in a sort of schematic way if I
make a video that approaches those
issues from the top down like talking
about the principles of economics
history of economic theory
that message is never gonna reach the
audience that needs to hear it it's very
easy for me to make a video
criticizing anti capitalists or
criticising communists that will be
received positively by other people who
already understand what's wrong with
anti capitalists and communists its
money there's the audience that wants to
hear it and there's the audience that
needs to hear it those are two very
different audiences so it occurred to me
I could just make a video talking about
my life subjectively and my reasons for
why I am NOT left-wing I grew up in a
context in Toronto Canada where
absolutely everyone around me was
left-wing the political spectrum of the
people surrounding me where I grew up in
Toronto Canada went from moderate
socialist to extreme communist it went
from the left to the left of center to
the extreme left I never met anyone
close to the center growing up I never
met any conservatives I mean I remember
one conversation on a bus with the guy
who was conservative but it's amazing
and you know what a few other points in
my life have been in the kind of
situation when me and my wife I'm
divorced now but me and my wife later
max wife I remember when we were
together in Cambridge England just blew
my mind I had been living in two
different communist countries I've lived
in Laos I've lived in China two
different genuinely communist countries
and then I'm living in England
I'm surrounded by Communists and
surrounded by communists who are way
more extreme and way more zhijun and way
more naive than anyone you meet in China
who's a member of the Communist Party in
China you can meet very down-to-earth
very cynical communists who have real
world experience and
you know and then you go back to a place
like England or a place like Toronto and
you meet these fanatical left-wingers
fanatical um it's a such a strange
contrast me too I've lived in Cambodia
Cambodia is a former or communist
country home to one of the greatest
disasters in the history of communism
I grew up uh Turley lacking the contrast
between right wing and left wing or even
between moderate conservative and
moderate left-wing and it's always kind
of burdened me I mean just now in the
last couple of years and I was at
University of Victoria I thought it was
hilarious that some of my professors
some of my professors regarded me as
conservative I mean look at my youtube
channel I'm there is nothing
conservative about any of my values I'm
a former scholar of Buddhism chose to
live my life in Asia chose to live my
life pursuing a combination of
humanitarian work and research interests
trying to make the world a better place
in terms of ecology but also in terms of
human rights in terms of so many issues
I was engaged with in Southeast Asia in
terms of you know human trafficking and
poverty and the progress of medicine in
these third-world countries developing
countries the transition from communism
to capitalism and countries like Laos
and Cambodia post-war ruination have
been engaged in so many different
ethical issues and I mean there's so
many ways in which you can tell my
values as a person even my values just
as a vegan cannot be described as
conservative in many ways you could say
I'm a radical because the kind of change
I want to see in the world is so
fundamental is such a fundamental status
if part of me is such a fundamental
challenge to the status quo and of
course beyond that I'm a nihilistic
atheist I describe myself as an
historical nihilist I don't believe in
religion I don't believe in conservatism
and I don't believe in liberalism I
don't believe in anything so in so many
ways it's obvious that I'm not a
conservative and yet I go back to Canada
I mean this University in Victoria and
again it's one of those situations where
the political context goes from
left-wing to communist everyone is
either a socialist or a communist there
is so far left that they perceive me as
conservative and to some extent that's
gonna happen within veganism people are
gonna perceive me as conservative just
because I'm a pragmatic down-to-earth
person look it's very humbling to
approach the world without any ideology
whether that's because you're a nihilist
like me or just because you are
pragmatist who can put aside your own
feelings your own commitment to certain
ideas to look at the world pragmatically
and ask yourself how can I make this
situation better okay it's very humbling
Saudi Arabia terrible political
situation what can you do to make it
better
Cambodia terrible political situation
what can you do to make it better Canada
I cared deeply about I was really
committed to political issues involving
our native people the Cree and the edge
of a especially we say First Nations
American Indians okay terrible political
situation what can I do to make it
better
you just start with that question and
proceed empirically and humbly to try to
figure out what you can do as one man or
what is one woman to make the world a
better place whether it's in urban
Cambodia or rural Canada you're never
going to come to this conclusion that
all of the left wingers start from that
all the anti capitalists are from that
the system is evil the system can never
produce absolute human equality
therefore the most constructive thing
you can do with your time is to work to
destroy the system itself is to work to
destroy capitalism and that's never
gonna be true for you as one individual
and it's never gonna be true for you and
your circle of five friends ten friends
50 friends the small circle of people
you can possibly organize to make the
world a better place what I see within
the vegan movement is self-styled anti
capitalists self-styled crypto
communists really that's what they are
people who are communists that why I met
their confidence claiming that the
problem with veganism is that veganism
works within the system and isn't a
fundamental challenge the existence of
the system itself and when they say the
system they mean capitalism and then
they will add on to this the idea that
capitalism is designed to fail
capitalism is inherently oppressive
inherently evil that it is ineluctably
unstable exploitative that capitalism
relies on economic assumptions such as
infinite growth that mean it's doomed to
some terrible catastrophe etc you know
this is an attitude that starts by
disregarding empirical experience and
really gets worse from there
I'm not here to tell you that capitalism
is wonderful I'm really not I'm here to
tell you that if you sit down with
yourself with all due humility and all
due honesty and think about how you can
make the world a better place it's not
through destroying capitalism whether
that's with all due humility that you
want to go to Cambodia and do
humanitarian work in Cambodia or Saudi
Arabia or right now maybe you want to go
to Lebanon or the border areas of Turkey
and help refugees from Syria
the idea that destroying capitalism is a
positive moral cause is a poisonous and
dangerous distorting optic to allow into
your life whether you're left-wing
right-wing or centrist and it becomes
ultimately a kind of silly
self-fulfilling prophecy in the minds of
people who believe in it all right if
somebody asks you what's the problem
with Cambodia today in 2017 you've got
to sit down and do research you've got
to sit down and do analysis let's figure
out what really are the problems in
Cambodia today and within that category
which problems can we hope to change
it's fundamentally a lazy fatuous
attitude to say no no these specific
problems the fruit of this specific
analysis doesn't matter because the
problem he's capitalism itself there's a
hell of a lot of lazy thinking like that
on the left I think I've mentioned this
before I went to a conference on ecology
in Canada and this guy stood up and gave
a lecture that began by saying he was a
communist that the problems they were
discussing - this particular seminar
really they were a joke because to talk
about changing power consumption and
power generation and ecologic Olympics
power generation really that doesn't
matter because we all know that the
fundamental problem with electricity
generation will never be solved until
there is a bloody revolution in which
the workers rise up and destroy the
ruling class and a bunch of people in
the crowd all murmured their agreement
with this because again downtown Toronto
a lot of people are left-wing he said ok
but with that having been said now I'm
gonna say a few words about the problem
with how electricity generation is
organized in Canada Oh
in a subtle and profound way
this type of revolutionary conceit
poisons and vitiates and invalid
invalidates everything you do as a
researcher everything you do as a
humanitarian worker everything you can
do as a vegan activist and I know that
problem is invisible to the people who
are already inside the left-wing mindset
or the anti-capitalist mindset okay why
am I personally not a left-winger I grew
up around left-wing people who said they
were anti-war the truth was they weren't
anti-war they were pro war they just
wanted to fight wars that they could win
they weren't anti-war they just
supported the wars Russia was fighting
and opposed the wars America was funny
it was all a lie I grew up around
left-wing people who talked seriously
this is before 1989 before the fall of
the Berlin Wall who talked seriously
about their future and thus also about
my future
fighting in a revolutionary war that
would tear the world apart that was how
they saw the future
but when I would ask them pragmatically
what weapons training were they getting
what military training were they getting
to prepare for this war for this
revolution that they thought is the
future this is classic Marxist ideology
Marxism Marxism absolutely believes that
the progress progress social progress of
any kind relies on violence relies on
basically a type of civil war okay
communism is a violent ideology and
believes that it's that social progress
is exclusively achieved through violence
and this is very employed on the whole
left wing when I ask these people oh
what military training are you under to
take you to actually prepare for that
they would look at me blankly okay
I grew up around left-wing people who
talked about helping the poor but they
did nothing to help the poor
they had no sincere pragmatic engagement
with helping the poor whereas the
right-wing Christians the conservative
Christians across the street really
weren't helping the poor and none of
nobody on the left was nobody around me
nobody in the world I lived in okay this
is the obviously some left-wing people
actually do humanitarian work okay it's
not that my values were conservative
okay I was interested in taking
left-wing values out of the realm of
ideology out of the realm of excuse
making and implementing them in a
pragmatic humble down-to-earth way in
the real world in a way that would
actually make a difference and that is
why I am NOT left-wing even though I'm
not Christian and I don't believe in
Christianity my thought process is much
more like a Christian who's looking at
humanitarian work who whether it's
helping the poor in Canada or trying to
build a more positive future in Cambodia
who's looking at how can I make a
positive difference now and although
left-wing people anti-capitalist people
communes people although they invoke the
name of poverty although they invoke the
idea of helping the poor
they're only invoking that as a pretext
and as an excuse for violence
they're only invoking that as an excuse
for their ideology of a holy war that
will create a utopia they call it class
war and one of the most fundamental
delusions is simply about the meaning of
that term and of the refusal of people
on the left to face up to the violent
and frankly terrifying reality
historically
of what class war really means class war
is about people going door-to-door and
slaughtering their own neighbors class
war is about the poor killing the rich
class war is about putting people on
trial murdering them and murdering their
children in the crib because of their
class status read the history of Russia
read the history of China read the
reality of what the Edo ideology of
class war was anywhere that it was put
into action and the people who come on
my channel and make excuses for mass
murder under communism have to
understand that you are making excuses
for an ideology and a political movement
that's killed billions of people and
that has included genocide that is
included acts of genocide not
exclusively or primarily but yes for
example the D Cossack ization campaign
in Russia starting already in 1917 there
were genocide all aspects to communism
of exterminating ethnic groups it's part
of it's part of the history the short
and snappy answer of why I am NOT
left-wing is because I actually want to
make the world a better place
I refuse to be part of a political
movement that is based on the lie that
they already are making the world a
better place I refused to part of a good
political movement that's justifying
violence past present or future violence
that is glorifying a violent revolution
past present or future
that's glorifying mass murder I refuse
to fight a political move that is
glorifying violence in the name of
making the world a better place
and that's why we see this bizarre
contrast between veganism and the
conventional left-wing that's why it
makes left-wingers so uncomfortable to
look at veganism and recognize veganism
is a movement that really can deliver on
its promises veganism is a movement
that's based on attainable goals not an
unattainable utopia not an impossible
set of ideals veganism can make a real
difference in ecology veganism can in a
sense save the planet veganism can
change all of our lives the better as
individuals it can be such a fundamental
change in our society and yet what it
can't do is justify the class war what
it can't do is serve as an ideological
plank in their fantasy their violent
fantasy that the workers will rise up
and destroy the ruling class okay and
that's what we have to defend against
the left-wing extremists within veganism
and the left-wing extremists may even be
the majority right now as veganism
becomes more mainstream we're going to
get more moderates we're gonna get more
centrist we're gonna get more reasonable
people we're gonna get more pragmatic
voices who just want to make a positive
difference but right now that is a
discussion that needs to happen veganism
is not revolutionary veganism is not
violent veganism does not promise you an
absolute equality between the factory
worker and the factory owner it's
irrelevant to veganism okay
veganism is not about tearing down the
society we already live in but what
veganism is about is making a positive
difference in this world without killing
anyone